Overview and Introduction (Under Preparation)
======================================================================

Overview
----------------------------------------------------------------------

FutureSystems offers IaaS Cloud platforms (e.g. OpenStack Havana,
Icehouse or Juno) to support Big Data applications on the cloud.
Virtual clusters are available on FutureSystems for distributed and
parallel computing applications.

The FutureSystems Project makes it possible for researchers to tackle
complex research challenges in computer science related to the use and
security of grids and clouds. These include topics ranging from
authentication, authorization, scheduling, virtualization, middleware
design, interface design, and cybersecurity, to the optimization of
grid-enabled and cloud-enabled computational schemes for researchers
in astronomy, chemistry, biology, engineering, atmospheric science and
epidemiology. The project team provides a significant new experimental
computing grid and cloud test-bed, named FutureGrid, to the research
community, together with user support for third-party researchers
conducting experiments on FutureGrid.

The test-bed makes it possible for researchers to conduct experiments
by submitting an experiment plan that is then executed via a
sophisticated workflow engine, preserving the provenance and state
information necessary to allow reproducibility.

The test-bed also includes a geographically distributed set of
heterogeneous computing systems, a data management system that holds
both metadata and a growing library of software images, and a
dedicated network allowing isolatable, secure experiments. The
test-bed supports virtual machine-based environments, as well as
native operating systems for experiments aimed at minimizing overhead
and maximizing performance. The project partners integrate existing
open-source software packages to create an easy-to-use software
environment that supports the instantiation, execution, and recording
of grid and cloud computing experiments.

One of the goals of the project is to understand the behavior and
utility of cloud computing approaches. Researchers are able to measure
the overhead of cloud technology by requesting linked experiments on
both virtual and bare-metal systems. FutureGrid enables US scientists
to develop and test new approaches to parallel, grid, and cloud
computing, and compare and collaborate with international efforts in
this area. The FutureGrid project provides an experimental platform
that accommodates batch, grid, and cloud computing, allowing
researchers to attack a range of research questions associated with
optimizing, integrating and scheduling the different service
models. The FutureGrid also provides a test-bed for middleware
development and, because of its private network, allows middleware
researchers to do controlled experiments under different network
conditions and to test approaches to middleware that include direct
interaction with the network control layer. Another component of the
project is the development of benchmarks appropriate for grid
computing, including workflow-based benchmarks derived from
applications in astronomy, bioinformatics, seismology, and physics.

The FutureGrid forms part of NSF's high-performance
cyberinfrastructure. It increases the capability of the XSEDE to
support innovative computer science research requiring access to lower
levels of the grid software stack, the networking software stack, and
to virtualization and workflow orchestration tools.

Education and broader outreach activities include the dissemination of
curricular materials on the use of FutureGrid, pre-packaged FutureGrid
virtual machines configured for particular course modules, and
educational modules based on virtual appliance networks and social
networking technologies that focus on education in networking,
parallel computing, virtualization and distributed computing. The
project advances education and training in distributed computing at
academic institutions with less diverse computational resources. It
does this through the development of instructional resources that
include preconfigured environments that provide students with
sandboxed virtual clusters. These can be used for teaching courses in
parallel, cloud, and grid computing. Such resources also provide
academic institutions with a simple opportunity to experiment with
cloud technology to see if such technology can enhance their campus
resources. The FutureGrid project leverages the fruits of several
software development projects funded by the National Science
Foundation and the Department of Energy.

Some useful resources are a poster in low and high resolution as well
as a generic presentation as of October 11 2009 with an update on
November 6 2009 and September 15 2010.

This material is based upon work supported in part by the National
Science Foundation under Grant No. 0910812 to Indiana University for
"FutureGrid: An Experimental, High-Performance Grid Test-bed."
Partners in the FutureGrid project include U. Chicago, U. Florida, San
Diego Supercomputer Center - UC San Diego, U. Southern
California, U. Texas at Austin, U. Tennessee at Knoxville, U. of
Virginia, Purdue I., and T-U. Dresden.



In the next page:
:doc:`futuresystemsuse`
